Added docs for KubeVirt (#2612)
tigera/docs: calico/networking/kubevirt/live-migration-bgp.mdx

---
description: Configure BGP routing to support KubeVirt live migration across racks and AS boundaries.
---

# BGP routing for KubeVirt live migration

## Big picture

> When KubeVirt VMs live-migrate between hosts, $[prodname] uses route priority to steer traffic to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a KubeVirt VM live-migrates between hosts, $[prodname] uses route priority to steer traffic to
```

Reviewer 2: Better: `When you live-migrate a KubeVirt VM to a new host, `

target host.

For this to work cluster-wide, the route priority information must be propagated via BGP:

- **Within an AS (iBGP):** $[prodname] automatically maps the kernel route metric (`krt_metric`)
  to BGP `local_pref` using the formula `local_pref = 2147483647 - krt_metric`. This mapping is
  hardcoded and works for both node-to-node mesh and explicit `BGPPeer` resources. No user
  configuration is needed.

- **Across AS boundaries (eBGP):** BGP `local_pref` is not carried across AS boundaries. You must
  configure `BGPFilter` resources to encode priority information using BGP communities or other
  attributes that cross AS boundaries.

### The downward default model is not supported

The [downward default model](../../reference/architecture/design/l3-interconnect-fabric.mdx#the-downward-default-model),
where ToR switches only advertise a default route downward to compute nodes, is **not compatible
with live migration**. Live migration requires specific /32 routes for the migrating VM to be
propagated across racks so that all nodes can route traffic to the new host. A default-route-only

> topology cannot carry per-VM route priority information.

Reviewer: This isn't quite right.  It's still fine to use downward default for almost all routes, but the ToR must pass on _elevated_ priority routes in their own right.  I think installers would see that as still _mostly_ using downward default.

To reflect that:
- perhaps "The pure downward default model is not supported" in the title?
- adapt the text to incorporate what I've written in this comment.

### Route aggregation

Under normal conditions, $[prodname] aggregates individual /32 workload routes into larger CIDR
blocks for BGP advertisement, reducing the number of routes in the network. During live migration,

> elevated-priority /32 routes **bypass aggregation** so that the per-host priority information is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
elevated-priority /32 routes **bypass aggregation** so that the per-route priority information is
```

  meaning — its interpretation is defined by agreement between network operators. By assigning a
  community value to represent elevated priority (e.g., `65000:100`), the exporting node marks
  which routes are preferred. The receiving node matches on that community and restores the
  appropriate kernel route metric. Communities are the most explicit and flexible approach because
  they carry an arbitrary signal that both sides interpret identically.

- **AS path prepending**: BGP's default best-path selection prefers routes with shorter AS paths.
  By prepending extra AS numbers to lower-priority routes on export, you make those routes appear
  longer and therefore less preferred. This technique works without any configuration on
  intermediate routers — they naturally prefer the shorter path. However, it is less precise than
  communities because it relies on the standard BGP decision process, which may be overridden by
  other attributes (e.g., MED, weight).

You can use either technique or combine them. The example below uses **communities only**, which
is the recommended approach for most deployments.

#### Step 1: Create a BGPFilter for the ToR peering

> Create a `BGPFilter` that uses the `priority` match field and `operations` to tag routes with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a `BGPFilter` that uses the `priority` and `operations` fields to tag routes with
```

BGP communities on export, and reconstruct priority from communities on import. The exact
community values depend on your network infrastructure; coordinate with your network team.

The following example uses community `65000:100` to mark elevated-priority routes (the migration

> target) and `65000:200` for normal-priority routes (the migration source):

Reviewer: I don't think a community should be needed or recommended to indicate "normal priority".  Instead "normal priority" should be indicated just by the _absence_ of `65000:100`, and I think that will then simplify this example.

Reviewer: (It makes the example look more complex than it needs to be.)

    - action: Accept
      peerType: eBGP
      priority: 1024
      operations:
        - addCommunity:
            value: "65000:200"
  importV6:
    - action: Accept
      communities:
        values: ["65000:100"]
      operations:
        - setPriority:
            value: 512
    - action: Accept
      communities:
        values: ["65000:200"]
      operations:
        - setPriority:
            value: 1024
    - action: Accept
```

Key fields used in this filter:

- **`priority`** (export rules): Matches routes by their kernel route metric. Only routes with the
  specified priority value match this rule.
- **`peerType: eBGP`** (export rules): Ensures the community tagging only applies to eBGP peers,
  not iBGP peers (which use the automatic `local_pref` mapping).
- **`communities`** (import rules): Matches routes carrying the specified BGP community.
- **`operations`**: An ordered list of route modifications applied to matching routes:
  - `addCommunity`: Adds a BGP community to the route.
  - `setPriority`: Sets the route's kernel metric (priority).

:::note

The `priority` values in the BGPFilter (512 and 1024) must match the `ipv4ElevatedRoutePriority`

> and `ipv4NormalRoutePriority` values in your `FelixConfiguration`. If you customized those values,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and `ipv4NormalRoutePriority` values in your `FelixConfiguration`. In case you customized those values,
```
